# Entry #1: *O King* by Luciano Berio (0:00-0:40)

Composed in 1968, *O King* is a piece written in memory of Martin Luther King, and so the vocals enunciate the letters of his name gradually across the piece. The piece feels very light texturally, beginning with the entire ensemble in united monophony (voice, flute, clarinet, violin, cello & piano), in a mid-high register. The first 15 seconds maintain this monophonic feel, with the occasional harmony added through some parts moving later than others to the next note, for example the clarinet at 0:10. At 0:20, the feel of the piece becomes more punctuated, due to occasional accented notes in the piano (0:20 & 0:30). The harmony remains fairly straightforward with mostly 3rds (major, then minor at 0:21) until 0:32, when the piano, clarinet and flute hit a concert B, while the voice does a portamento down to the F below, creating a dissonant tritone between them. For the entirety of the extract, the pitch range used remains quite limited, with only the odd disjunct note dipping lower in the range, e.g. 0:33 in the piano, where the register shifts are quite dramatic. I really enjoyed the way the parts seamlessly blend into each other in this piece and use unison to create very natural suspensions (as mentioned above) and interesting tone qualities, like the flutter-tonguing flute layered over the same note in the voice, clarinet and piano at 0:17.  


# Entry #2: *Symphonies of Wind Instruments* by Igor Stravinsky (1:53-3:15)

*Symphonies of Wind Instruments* was written in 1920 by Stravinsky, for an ensemble of full orchestral woodwind and brass. It was dedicated to Debussy who had died two years previously. The overall form alternates between a recurring tutti theme and smaller chamber sections, though the extract I will be focusing on here is a flute/clarinet duet, with some additional clarinet interjections. This excerpt starts in a homophonic texture with quite an agitated feel due to the constantly changing metre to follow the winding melody (e.g. 2:01). The tonality is ever-developing but the flute and the accompanying clarinet playing in its lowest octave are playing in two different keys, with the flute beginning the section in E minor. This portion of the duet is quite soft and ornamented (grace notes and fast turns etc. in the flute (2:20) and upper clarinet (2:14)), contrasting with the *forte* staccatissimo double reed entries at 2:25 and 2:37. While I find the tonal palette quite complex in this piece, I thoroughly enjoyed the folk motives in this piece and the orchestration, often alternating between sectional choirs e.g. at 3:05 when there is a short chorale-like horns and tuba phrase before moving to lower double reeds to bridge into the next section.

# Entry #3: *Mouvements perpétuels - I. Assez modéré* by Francis Poulenc

This piece is for solo piano, written by Poulenc while he was still young and under the teaching of Satie - the influence of Satie's work is evident here through the simplicity of the melodic theme that begins the piece and the constant ostinato bassline, but we see Poulenc's own distinctive tonal complexity later on. This movement begins in the major, establishing the bassline in a fully tonal key, before the right hand takes on a lydian phrase at 0:07. At 0:14, the theme also mutates into an unrelated major key, though the initial effect is minor due to the continuously major bassline. The melodic language becomes more chromatic at 0:20, creating more disjunct, jagged shapes that, while sharing commonalities with the primary theme of rhythm and descending motion, set a much less innocent tone to the rest of the piece. I especially enjoyed the efficacy of the shifting tone of this movement - the tone is predominantly playful and light-hearted - this shifts in the more dissonant sections to a much darker, edgier tone, before reverting once more to the same cheerful, scalic melody. 

# Entry #4: *Introduction And Allegro for Harp, String Quartet, Flute And Clarinet* by Maurice Ravel (1:17-2:47)

*Introduction And Allegro* is a piece by Ravel, commissioned by the harp-makers Érard in 1905 with the purpose of promoting the quality of their pedal harps. As such, the piece contains sections that feature the harp as a soloist, playing a prominent role throughout and exhibiting several harp-specific extended techniques. The extract begins in an excitable, dreamlike atmosphere, created by the soaringly high ascending cello melody, oscillating staccato arpeggios in the woodwind and the highness of the pitch used by all instruments. The harp joins on the arpeggios in the run up to 1:38, where the cello hits its highest note yet, passing the melody off to the violin on the backdrop of a lush Db7 chord. This bar is particularly effective due to the suspended 6th in the melody before dropping to the 5th of the chord. At 1:57, there is a solo harp section making use of harmonics in the LH to assist with the parallel octaves in the RH melody. I love the dreamy effect that the instrumentation has, the sound of the harp with the flute especially has a fairytale connotation, especially emphasised by some of the classic harp techniques e.g. repeated enharmonics in octaves at 2:39.

# Entry #5: *Sal's Sax* by Joe Cutler (0:00-2:00)

Joe Cutler's piece *Sal's Sax* is a relatively modern piece (1996), taking cues from atonal music, modernism, and even jazz. The piece opens with a solo soprano/sopranino saxophone looping a syncopated, funky ostinato in 3/4 time before changing to a new riff where every fourth bar is in 4/4. The unexpected extra beat in each repetition creates an irregularity that keeps the listener on their toes. At 0:37, a trombone joins in in unison with the saxophone, followed by dense, punchy mid-rangechord clusters in the piano at 0:55, emphasising the rhythmic changes going on through the metre. The melody continues to develop through slightly different rhythms and at different dynamics, the piano eventually dropping out of the texture again at 1:56. While it is in the nature of the style to include a lot of repetition in material, my biggest gripes as a listener to this piece were how slowly the melody developed (in both rhythm and pitch), as well as the rhythmic instability generated from both extreme use of syncopation and no clear pulse initially to help ground the metre. But I appreciated some aspects of the strong writing of each motif e.g. the use of disjunct sequences e.g. 1:18.