*What role does ethnomusicology play in shaping understandings of human existence (or human experience) in contemporary society?*

*In your response, suggest a provable thesis that answers this question;*
- *draw on readings for at least three lectures over the course of the second half of the term (A. Cannon's lectures);*
- *find a selection of new readings and performances and evaluate them;*
- *and undertake music analysis of at least one performance in the essay.*

*Since this is only 1500 words, it is important for the essay to be precise, concise, and especially well organised.*

---

Much of the world remains to be investigated ethnomusicologically, remaining largely misunderstood by the Western world due to lack of exposure or enforced stereotypes, often exacerbated by research from Eurocentric perspectives that fails to understand a culture's relationship with the music they are investigating. One culture that does not have widely available research into its musical traditions is Malta. Malta provides an interesting, untapped example: the intersectionality of different cultures that Malta consists of due to its geographical location and sovereign history means that its folk music draws from and develops on many and varied traditions. These different influences have come to create a "sonic signature" of Malta. Indicative of Malta's status throughout history as an important cross-cultural nexus, is the commonly used expression that Malta is the "bridge" ([[@goodwin2002malta|Goodwin, 2002]]) or "gateway" ([[@extrahistoryCosplayingCaesarNapoleon2023|Extra History, 2023: 6:40-6:46]]; [[@bonniciGatewayAfrica|Bonnici, 2014]]) to (usually from a Western perspective) Egypt, Africa, or the Mediterranean as a whole. It has also historically been strategically placed as both a trade and military outpost. Due to its being on the edge of several broader cultural communities (Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Middle East, North Africa), this has lead to a position of intersecting cultural spheres, thus leading to a musical hybridisation of many styles.
In proving this thesis, a concentration on how cultural and national identity is cultivated through music will be required. I will examine this through examination of local attitudes to cultural music in Malta, and a discussion of the ways in which ~~the~~ broader politics and individual agencies have contributed to this sonic signature.


Malta has been under rule from a variety of nations and organisations — the Byzantine Empire, Aghlabids/Abbassids, the Knights Hospitaller (who in of themselves were a massively multicultural group within a monoreligious context), France, and Britain. Malta is, then, a profoundly ancient nation, having been an important strategic outpost for Mediterranean civilisations, and later as a staging point for Western powers operating in the area (emblematised by its important role as an island citadel in WWII), thus leading to a long history of multiculturalism. 
The term *għana* refers to the most popular style of traditional folk singing in Malta ([[@Malta|Bondin, Ciantar and Moore, 2001]]). Ciantar ([[@ciantar2000bar|2000]]) writes that, in general, the Maltese do not embrace their own musical traditions, leading to a societal repression of *għana*. Both Ciantar and Cassia (therein) accredit this to a "reluctantly embraced Arabic past" (Ibid.), as *għana* mostly draws upon historical Arabic traditions. Arabic, as well as North African, traditions being the predominant influences on this music, elucidates how there is a much looser thread between *għana* and European tradition ([[@chircopOralTraditionHistorical1993|Chircop, 1993]]). Since assuming administrative control of Malta in 1814 ([[@castillo2006maltese|Castillo, 2006]]), the British seemed to have had little effect on these cultural traditions. This may have been due to the political context of British rule; as Castillo puts it, "the Maltese view was that Britain had been invited to take possession of Malta [in order to enact peace and prosperity], while the British believed it was theirs by right of conquest" (Ibid.). Given that the nation appeared to view itself entirely *de facto* independent at this point, they retained their older traditions and resisted British ones, despite them being their *de jure* rulers. Ethnomusicologists could study this further by researching precisely how Maltese traditions relate to other cultures. A comparative analysis of Malta and other musical traditions, with a look at Arabic vocal styles and approach to guitar technique (as a core accompaniment instrument in Maltese culture), in particular would help to more clearly establish the ties between them.
These musical traditions have been passed down through families, with specifically *spirtu pront* — as will be expanded on later — traditionally sung by older, 'sharp-witted' males, while children may be asked to accompany on guitar ([[@ciantar2000bar|Ciantar, 2000]]). It is through this musical experience that children then learn how to improvise in this style.


Sonic signature is a term frequently found in the world of recording and music production to refer to the specific audio qualities associated with a specific recording artist, engineer, album, or other such professional output ([[@LanoisDaniel|Zak, 2014]]). To recontextualise this in ethnomusicology, a sonic signature could be conceived as a distinctive character of sound unique to or emblematic of a culture's music. 

Creativity ties into these ideas via a collaborative approach. Some practices may develop based on alternating passages, allowing for improvisation and thus shaping the performances through its performers' ideas. A distributed creative approach to the cultivation of particular musics has led to the extensive exploration of musical material, but also social issues and relevant cultural subject matter. The further deepens the national and political identity associated with the country, showing a more wholistic impression of its society.
The sonic signature is derived through the implementation of this practice, and how this differs in one location to the next, as the concept itself is not unique. For example, a Maltese tradition that yields sonic signature whilst also engaging with these creative principles is *spirtu pront*: this practice involves the two or more vocal performers, accompanied by a guitar, musically battling each other to produce the best, most complex lyrics, and to offend or belittle their opponent ([[@ciantar2000bar|Ciantar, 2000]]). As Ciantar (Ibid.) states, these are not intended to directly insult, but to subtly prove one's higher level of genius.
The style of music this takes involves the use of high male tenor voices (without using falsetto), overall descending melodic phrases, use of ornamentation and melismas, and syncopation ([[@ciantar2000bar|Ibid.]]). This makes it, in some ways, quite inaccessible as it is incredibly challenging to the unpracticed, unconditioned voice.
To take a recording and examine these features; the recording by Festivals Malta shows a modern-day live performance of *spirtu pront* ([[@festivalsmaltaGhanaSpirtuPront2020|2020]]). The performance is over 30 minutes long, with the vocal performers taking it in turns to improvise verses and incorporate wordplay and other poetic devices. A notable feature of this that is yet to be discussed is also the multitude of guitars, with one of these guitarists taking a very active improvisational role between verses and occasionally during the verses (e.g. 9:36). 

In relation to national identity, music plays a particularly interesting role from the political perspective of the country; it is oftentimes seen as a working class activity, with the elites looking down upon Malta's singing traditions ([[@cassiaExoticizingDiscoveriesExtraordinary2000|Cassia, 2000: 282, 285]]), in part due to the venues with which this music is typically associated. This places certain musical traditions of Malta quite far away from the perceived politics of the state, with singers often having to significant level of agenda. This also adds to the sonic signature created by these traditions, as it shows the nation through the lens of some of its least respected people. Styles such as *tal-Fatt* in particular provide a platform for this train of thought, and allow independent social commentary through the storytelling associated with modern-day interpretations of the practice ([[@Malta|Bondin, Ciantar and Moore, 2001]]).

For the most part in Maltese society, only men are allowed to engage with musical tradition; as [[@mcleodBormlizaMalteseFolksong1975|McLeod and Herndon (1975)]] discuss, one of the only traditional musics women are permitted to sing, *la bormliza*, is dying out. Ciantar ([[@ciantar2000bar|2000]]) even goes as far as to state that if a woman were seen singing in public, she would be assumed to be a prostitute. To some extent, Malta seems to have retained what is now a slightly outdated Western concept of individualised creativity, and that it can only be held or exhibited by white men. *Spirtu pront* provides an interesting example of the intersection of these contrasting ideas of creativity in Maltese society; whilst it is a collaborative process for performers to bounce musical and lyrical ideas off of one another, it also showcases and exhibits the male genius on a public stage.

While Malta certainly has its own distinctive musical tradition and identity, its identity in the wider world has little cognitive associations to the average person. Much of the ethnoresearch conducted in Malta has not seen much of a global stage, with this partly being due to the closeted nature of traditional music in the country ([[@mcleodBormlizaMalteseFolksong1975|McLeod and Herndon, 1975]]). However, the complex cultural and political underpinnings to its vocal traditions in particular, provide a much broader insight into Malta's cultural environment and how this is received by the public. The discussion of *spirtu pront* is especially prevalent in exhibiting the ideas discussed above, in relation to creativity and the arts in society.