# Supporting Statement
## Description of project
I have already done a lot of work in advance of the conference, having conducted hours of research into mine and Chris's presentation. This has involved the more traditional route of online sources and literature reading, but also speaking to some of the more notable figures to have conducted their own research on the topic in recent years. The topic we have been researching is to do with how sound cues are used to indicate character dialogue in multimedia, with an emphasis on how this affects characterisation; therefore, we discussed some of our ideas with Jenna Stoeber, an academic in the States with a specialism in media studies and a former Polygon host, and Dr Elizabeth Medina-Gray, a leading ludomusicologist working at Ithaca College in New York State. This has led me to feel confident that the research we're presenting is new and high-level enough for the conference platform.

Regarding the logistics of the trip: due to the 9am start time on the first day of the conference, I plan to travel to Edinburgh the day before. From the start of the conference, I will be able to take notes, ask questions and otherwise engage with the talks being given for the full three days, with mine and Chris's talk on the final day. Some of the other presentations I am especially looking forward to watching and discussing with the presenters are: Tommy Dainko – '*Sounding the Supernatural with Alash Ensemble: Austin Wintory’s Use of Tuvan Music in* The Pathless' and Kate Galloway – *On Listening to the Digital Animal in Games: Or, What Do Multispecies Sonic Cultural Phenomena in Games Tell Us About Human Ideas of Sonic Communication and Listening?*

There will also be evening activities to take part in with the other attendees, allowing for network and potential future collaboration with academic specialists. The team running the conference are incredibly established and integrated into the academic field of ludomusicology, and having attended the conference last year, are more than willing to give advice and opportunities to students looking to get involved in the academic field.

## Contribution to personal/academic development
