I am herein making a formal complaint against Mr Daniele Rosina, Director of Orchestral Studies and conductor within the University of Birmingham Music Society, wherein he holds several positions of leadership and authority. This complaint is made on the grounds of **bullying**, and **victimisation**, experienced most severely during the previous academic year (2021-2022), especially during interactions as a member of the Philharmonic Orchestra and Summer Festival Orchestra which he conducts, and as described within the University of Birmingham's *[[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf|Harassment and Bullying Policy]]*, which is attached to this complaint. To contextualise my grievances with the conduct of Mr Rosina within the framework of this policy, I will refer to section headings of this document throughout. 

# Rationale for Formal Complaint as Course of Action

As described in [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§11.2]], in the first instance of being subject to the grievances described [[Formal Complaint Against Daniele Rosina#The Grievances|below]] I attempted to seek informal routes of resolution. As per [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§11.3]], I consulted with members of the Music Office, including Gavin Allsop, Rachel Gibson, and Jo Sweet. My primary point of contact at the time was Rachel Gibson, who is no longer an employee of the University. In conversations with her, and in accordance with [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§11.3]], I described the events that had taken place, often within an hour of them occurring. These accounts were recorded on pen and paper and kept, to the best of my knowledge, according to [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§11.3]]. I was advised to make a formal complaint should I see fit. 

I acknowledge the various informal courses of action documented within [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§12]]. Indeed, measures in line with [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=10|§12.3]] were undertaken in one particular occasion detailed below, however the resolution of those steps did not result in a satisfactory conclusion. However, due to Mr Rosina's exceptionally confrontational behaviour in past encounters — indeed, I have been informally advised by staff that directly engaging with Mr Rosina in order to discuss this would likely only make the situation worse — I have concluded (as is my prerogative by [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§12.1]]) that these avenues would be inappropriate to my situation at this point. 

It is notable that there has been a significant gap of time between my last problematic encounter with Mr Rosina and my submission of this complaint. The reasons for which are as follows:

1. I was concerned about potential repercussions for me should I submit this complaint. Despite reassurances in [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=9|§11.1]], Mr Rosina is, as one online article puts it, a man ["blessed with important musical contacts"](https://www.thefreelibrary.com/When+Daniele%27s+not+working+he%27s+networking%3B+Conductor+Daniele+Rosina...-a0166020245). I am not a confrontational person generally, and relevant staff will attest to how distressed I was when first coming forward about what I was experiencing. Advancing to the degree of making a formal complaint is an undertaking I make with great reluctance, and with a great degree of concern for the repercussions I could face socially and professionally for doing so.
	1. It has come to my attention since the events of the last academic year, from numerous sources, some of whom must remain anonymous, that they have witnessed and/or suffered similar mistreatment by Mr Rosina, the majority of whom confessed that they were similarly retiscent to speak out about their experiences for fear of said professional or social repercussions. Since this behaviour is clearly not limited to me as an individual, and indeed might be seen to exhibit a pattern of behaviour, it seemed all the more important that the events of last academic year were brought to light.
2. Over the course of this academic year, the effects of the **victimisation** I have endured since last year have prevented me from being as active a member of the Music Society, and thus the University community, as I would wish to be. As a member of the PGR community, and as someone undertaking a Performance Practice PhD especially, I have a right to be able to engage with the musical activities of the University to the fullest of my abilities. However, my experiences with Mr Rosina have made it all but impossible to do so, for fear of repercussions and of the risk of suffering the same detriment to my emotional and physical wellbeing that I have in the past experienced.

Given the profound effect that these grievances have had on my personal wellbeing and professional opportunities as a postgraduate member of the University, I am following the guidance according to [[University of Birmingham bullying.pdf#page=12|§13.4]] and submitting the **Concern Review form** [[Concern Review Form.docx|attached]].

# Important Background Information

It is important context for the purposes of this discussion to be aware of two pieces of personal background information about myself. Both of these pieces of information are on University systems, as I included them in my application and registration processes.

Firstly, I am diagnosed with severe migraines, for which I am prescribed Sumatriptan (GP letter available on request). These migraines are debilitating and whilst they can occur indiscriminately, they are often brought-on or aggravated by excessive stress. I could not say for complete certainty if Mr Rosina is aware of this, however I have had migraine episodes in rehearsal previously and indeed had to take my medication for them in order to continue playing. I recall him asking after me during one of these events and my explaining the condition.

Secondly, I am dyspraxic/dyslexic, manifesting primarily through severe dysgraphia, organisational difficulties, and some motor coordination defficiencies, for which I was allocated a **Reasonable Adjustment Plan** ([[Chris Hill Reasonable Adjustment Plan.pdf|attached]]). I know for certain that Mr Rosina is aware of this, as it was discussed to at a Orchestra Principals' Meeting, where Mr Rosina and I spoke about our differing experiences of the condition. It was at this meeting that I objected to the insinuation that members of the orchestra be harassed into using a pencil to mark down scores during rehearsals, pointing out that people with various neurodivergences can find reading visually. 

# The Grievances

## Bullying

#### Incident 1 — 

#### Incident 2 — 6th June 2022

During a rehearsal on the 6th of June, I had a very short window of time between the end of orchestral rehearsal to then get straight to the CBSO Centre for a rehearsal with the CBSO Chorus, with whom I had a scholarship. Conscious of the time (and knowing the clock in the rehearsal hall was consistently wrong), I discreetly checked my phone for the time. Admittedly, I was in the wrong for having my phone out in a rehearsal here, and if my watch had been charged I'd have simply used that instead. I was immediately singled out by Mr Rosina, and chastised for doing so. Rather than a simple and brief reprimand though, Mr Rosina protracted the interaction, holding up the rehearsal for a significant moment, and pressing the issue like he was expecting a response from me beyond the quick apology I'd already given. 

He was clearly holding me to a different standard to other members of the ensemble. I remember him specifically and deridingly saying "Really Chris? You should know better?", the intent of which was clearly to belittle me in front of the ensemble. I'm sure Mr Rosina would argue that, as a section principle, it is right that I be held to a higher standard, and perhaps in spirit I would agree. However, that logic was not being upheld in this situation on his part. Part of the reason I thought to check my phone in the first place was that **multiple people** in the ensemble had been not just checking their phones throughout the rehearsal, but were **openly using them for protracted periods of time**, laughing and joking with desk-partners about things shown to each other on their phones, and were using phones during bars rest when the ensembles was playing, and when Mr Rosina was speaking to other areas of the ensemble. This included other section principals, and — without wishing to identify individuals — I could clearly see this happening within the woodwind section of which I was a part as well as elsewhere in the ensemble. At no point over the course of the rehearsal until that point had anyone else been reprimanded for this use of their devices. 

Furthermore, whilst the use of phones was particularly endemic in this particular rehearsal, it was not unique to it. I had noted, much to my chargrin, how little certain individuals were paying attention to Mr Rosina because they were on their phones. Within my remit as section principal, I had even had to ask one individual to stop using theirs constantly. I was ignored completely and antagonistically. In the past, I have endured derogatory and offensive comments being made about myself over Snapchat between two members of the woodwind section **during rehearsals** — clearly intended to be made without my knowledge but when people are hiding phones from the conductor by having them on their music stands it is impossible to ignore. 

Frustrated, but otherwise willing to take a slap on the wrist since I acknowledged I was, despite the context, still somewhat in the wrong, I continued with the rehearsal without incident. When the rehearsal came to an end I hurried to pack up my things since I had very little time to make it to the CBSO centre. Mr Rosina saw me packing up and **made straight for me**, derisively continuing to comment on the phone issue ("Really Chris?" etc., etc.). Already aggravated, and stressed that he would still be pushing the issue a good 30-60 minutes after it happened and when I was visibly in a hurry, I pointed out to him that I was far from the only one using their phones that rehearsal. He claimed that I had just been unlucky and that I had happened to be the first person that he saw using their phone. Considering I had only barely moved the phone out of my pocket for a second to check the time, compared to the hour or so preceding of people protractededly and openly using their phones, this seemed a laughable to me then, and even more so now I have had the experience of leading an ensemble of comparable scale; there is no way, beyond willful ignorance, that this behaviour could have gone unseen from the conductor's platform. 

#### Incident 3 — 20-25th June 2022

A late scheduling confirmation for orchestral rehearsals meant that rehearsals for the **week beginning 21st June** were scheduled in such a way that clashed with my teaching obligations for the non-profit organisation [The Brilliant Club](https://thebrilliantclub.org), with whom I was employed as a part-time tutor. I was being paid to teach online lessons to GCSE-year students, and in this instance I was helping prepare students for their GCSE Maths exams. With national exams so imminent, and having to work within a busy school timetable, these lessons could not be moved. I knew I would have to miss a portion of the orchestral rehearsal in order to meet this commitment to The Brilliant Club, and indeed to the students I was teaching. 

N.B.: I was not required for the full repertoire being performed for the Summer Festival Orchestra concert that season, as I was only performing in one of the three pieces being performed: The Prokofiev *Symphony № 5*. 

Knowing how Mr Rosina was liable to react to my being unable to attend part of the rehearsal caused me a great deal of stress. Panicked, I called Gavin Allsop, and left a voicemail, to see what could be done. Gavin replied promptly, and in the **email chain that followed** ([[RE_ This week schedule (Jun22).eml|attached]]) he proposed a very reasonable solution to the predicament; a compromise in which I would complete my teaching obligations in one of the "Nooks" in the LG of the Bramall building, mere feet away from the rehearsal space to minimise time between me finishing and being able to attend rehearsal. **Mr Rosina was copied into this email chain by Gavin**. He sent no acknowledgment of its contents. 

On the **Monday (20th)**, the schedule fell such that my teaching was scheduled for the first hour of the rehearsal. I arrived on campus in good time and, finding a free Nook to use, conducted my lesson as agreed with Gavin. I finished the lesson a little early in order to keep my agreement of being absent for only an hour, giving myself time to move up to The Dome for the remainder of the rehearsal. I was not communicated with by Mr Rosina directly beyond the usual proceedings of the rehearsal, but subsequently found out that **passive-aggressive comments** had been made about my absence by Mr Rosina **to the ensemble** at large during the earlier part of the rehearsal. 

**N.B.: Friday 24th happened to be a [University Open Day](https://www.opendays.com/institutions/university-of-birmingham-open-day-1-july-2011.aspx).**

On the **Friday (24th)**, the day of the [Summer Festival Orchestra concert](https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/schools/lcahm/departments/music/events/2022/summer-22/summer-festival-orchestra.aspx), my teaching meant instead of arriving late to the rehearsal I would have to leave early. Thinking that this would not represent an issue — considering the email communication that I had received, and that I had not been questioned by Mr Rosina about my absence on the Monday — I sat down and played in the rehearsal as normal. I noticed that the rehearsal had an audience, as parents and prospective students nipped in and out of the auditorium to listen to the ensemble. I noted, with some relief, that we were starting the rehearsal with the *Symphony № 5*, meaning I would miss an even smaller amount of the rehearsal that I was required for. At a natural pause in the rehearsal, I went to leave as unobstrusively as I could. **I was immediately yelled at by Mr Rosina**. He demanded to know where I thought I was going, which I told him, reminding him of the email communication with himself and Gavin where this had been agreed. He continued shouting that I hadn't agreed it with him, and therefore he **would not permit me to leave**, completely undermining the authority of Gavin as University Music Manager. He then launched into a tirade, insulting both my personal and professional character. I was called "capricious", "arrogant" and accused of "having no respect for my colleagues \[in the orchestra\]", amongst other such derogatory claims. All this, in the middle of the rehearsal and **surrounded by my peers**, and **witnessed by many prospective students and parents** in the audience. Humiliated, I replied that if he would be willing to write a letter to my employer explaining my absence I would stay. Clearly unwilling to do so, he snapped that I should "go on then". I then had to leave with the eyes of the entire hall on me. One **prospective parent** at the back of the hall reached out as I was leaving and asked if I was ok. I saw others visibly shaking their head; at myself or Mr Rosina's actions I couldn't say. I then had to **teach my hour's lesson whilst still deeply distressed** by what had happened. After I had finished teaching, **many members of the orchestra** leaving the rehearsal sought me out to make sure I was ok, and decrying Mr Rosina's handling of the situation. 

I sought out Rachel Gibson after this and relayed what had transpired to her. She advised me to avoid contact with Mr Rosina for the rest of the day, especially if I was alone. "If he gets in a lift with you: get out. Just don't engage him". The interaction had left me deeply unwilling to do the concert that evening. Only my desire not to let down my fellow musicians caused me to perform that evening. It is my understanding that Gavin Allsop later spoke to Mr Rosina, specifically highlighting that he had, in fact, been informed about the abscences described in the email, contrary to his claims. Despite this, I **never received an apology** from Mr Rosina for his words, formally or otherwise. 

### The Effects of this Bullying

## Victimisation



### The Effects of this Victimisation